---
title: Nextcloud
layout: page
parent: App Notes
---

## _Update Needed_ Notification
You may see a _Update Needed_ notification instead of the login page. This can occur after adding a new custom app or if your pod was paused when updates were applied.

To resolve this, run _Nextcloud_'s update script:

1. Select _More > Pause Pod_ in your _PikaPods_ dashboard.
2. Wait for a about a minute.
3. Now resume the pod via _More > Resume Pod_. This step will run the update script, which can take several minutes.

If you keep seeing the error after this there may be an update error related to custom apps and the logs found in _More > Show Logs_ may have more details.

## Nextcloud Updates
You may see a notification to update in Nextcloud's admin section. Since updates are centrally managed, this feature is disabled. Your pod will automatically receive updates within 1-2 weeks of their release. We also run any required migration scripts for you. 😇

## Warnings regarding `.well-known` paths
You may see warning regarding `.well-known` paths to CalDAV and CardDAV services in the *Security & setup warnings* section. Those are false positives and those paths will work as expected.

## Debug Nextcloud Errors
If your Nextcloud pod still has an error or you can't log in, the first place to check is Nextcloud's own logs located in `/data/nextcloud.log`, which is accessible using [SFTP](/faq/#accessing-pod-files-using-sftp). It will have actual errors generated by Nextcloud that are different from the pod logs that only contain web requests.

## Adjust PHP Settings
The default maximum upload size is set to 512 MB. You can increase this or adjust other PHP settings by editing the `uploads.ini` file using [SFTP](/faq/#accessing-pod-files-using-sftp). If you increase this value, you may also need to increase the pod's memory allocation. Settings in this file are applied after restarting the pod or changing its resources. The most common settings:

- [Increase maximum upload size](https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/latest/admin_manual/configuration_files/big_file_upload_configuration.html#configuring-php)
- [Increase cache memory](https://github.com/nextcloud/docker/issues/2184#issuecomment-2078954908)

See [here](https://www.php.net/manual/en/ini.core.php) for a detailed description of available settings.


## Scan for added files
If you uploaded files over SFTP, Nextcloud may not show them right away. You can add the below setting to ask it to look for new files on the file system. More on this [here](https://help.nextcloud.com/t/how-to-make-nextcloud-aware-of-added-files/10824/4) and [here](https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/26/admin_manual/configuration_server/config_sample_php_parameters.html).

`'filesystem_check_changes' => 1,`

## Maintenance Mode
You can enable or disable maintenance mode in the configs, accessible over [SFTP](/manage/files). Find the file `config/config.php` and look for a line containing `'maintenance' => false,`. Then change to `true` or `false` as needed.

In rare cases an installation can stay in maintenance mode after an update.
